snakebot-clojurescript/README.md, before:

# Cygni Clojurescript Snake Bot Client

### Do you want to be one of the cool kids?

You are now standing at a cross road in your life. You have been tasked with writing the best snake bot ever. There are a number of paths to walk down, a number of hats to pull your rabbit out of. But the important thing to know is that this is the only righteous one.

I present to you a Clojurescript template for your snake-bot. This template is the first step on your journey.

LISP (Luxurious Immense Super Programming) will take you out of the tar pit and ascend you into a higher being. A being that only speak in parentheses and data. This is the path towards the pearly gates and it will turn you into the Alpha and the Omega of programming.

When you have walked the path of the righteous you will earn a seat in the high heavens and you will gaze down from your mountain of awesomeness upon the lesser beings of the world.

# Get it running

1. Install leiningen. Follow the instructions at http://leiningen.org/
2. Install NodeJs. Follow the instructions at https://nodejs.org/en/download/
2. with a command prompt/ terminal traverse to the root folder where the project.clj file is located
3. lein deps
4. lein cljsbuild once
5. node ./snake-bot.js

### Development tips

instead of "lein cljsbuild once" do "lein cljsbuild auto" this will start a file watcher that will recompile the javascript upon file changes.

# Structure

- root
  - src
    - cljs_snake_bot
      - snake_examples (In here there are two examples, one random snake and one snake that tries to not hit the walls nor other snakes)
    - constants.cljs (All the message identifiers used)
    - core.cljs (Contains the websocket handling and the game loop. The game loop is just a busy wait loop that continues until the game ends)
    - event.cljs (The reactions to different messages. This piece will update the current game state and also respond to different events with a new message)
    - messagehandler.cljs (Parses the current message and calls the correct event handler)
    - messages.cljs (Message templates)
    - printer.cljs (Console/Terminal printer)
    - settings.cljs (Current game settings and game state)
  - project.clj (Leiningen project file that contains dependencies and stuff)

# What to change

### Settings.cljs

Update the settings of your client either if you want to change what the printer prints, the map used for the games, if you are the host for the game or not, or what hostname/port/gamemode the server is running.

You can also change what colors the snakes will be assigned to. All that you need to do is to change the snake-colors atom. Available options are; black, red, green, yellow, blue, magenta, cyan, white, gray and if the author of the colors.js package accepts my pull request you will also have; america, rainbow, random and zebra. Just remember that the color names are case sensitive.

### Events.cljs

Here is where you will include your snake. Update the final line of "on-map-updated" and pass it any valid movement directional string and it will send that to the server. A snippet can be found below:

```clojure
(defn on-map-updated [msg]
  (p/print-map-updated-message msg)
  (s/state-set :game-tick (:gameTick msg))
  (msgs/get-move-message (s/state-get :player-id) (s/state-get :game-tick) "DOWN")) // Change "DOWN" into something else
```

  I would place my snake in its own namespace. Require that namespace into this file and call some get-move function that returns your next move. An example can be found below

- super-snake.cljs
```clojure
  (ns cljs-snake-bot.snake-examples.super-snake
    (:require [cljs.core :as core]))

  (defn get-next-movement [msg] "UP")
```

- events.cljs
```clojure
  (ns cljs-snake-bot.events
    (:require [cljs.nodejs :as nodejs]
              [cljs-snake-bot.messages :as msgs]
              [cljs-snake-bot.settings :as s]
              [cljs-snake-bot.printer :as p]
              [cljs-snake-bot.snake-examples.super-snake :as ss])

  (defn on-map-updated [msg]
    (p/print-map-updated-message msg)
    (s/state-set :game-tick (:gameTick msg))
    (msgs/get-move-message (s/state-get :player-id) (s/state-get :game-tick) (ss/get-next-movement msg)))

```
And now your snake should start moving upwards instead.

Woho!

### Project.clj

Update this one if you need more NodeJs dependencies or if you need to optimize your solution or something similar.
To see how NodeJs dependencies are used. Look at the core.cljs file.

## Utils

There is a small utils library included that provides some basic helper functions. Documentation for the functions are found within the utils.cljs file.


## Tests

There are a couple of tests written for this client. They can be found within the test folder.
To run these tests do the following:

1. Download and install SlimerJS. Follow the instructions at https://slimerjs.org/ and remember to set the script to your path
2. in a terminal traverse to the project root
3. lein deps
4. lein doo slimer test


You have now the ability to be one of the cool kids. Yay you!

Commit message:

Added heartbeat Added client info message Added user message printer so the messages are in the right order Removed unnecessary arguments to messages Added map size enum

snakebot-clojurescript/README.md, after:

# Cygni Clojurescript Snake Bot Client

### Do you want to be one of the cool kids?

You are now standing at a cross road in your life. You have been tasked with writing the best snake bot ever. There are a number of paths to walk down, a number of hats to pull your rabbit out of. But the important thing to know is that this is the only righteous one.

I present to you a Clojurescript template for your snake-bot. This template is the first step on your journey.

LISP (Luxurious Immense Super Programming) will take you out of the tar pit and ascend you into a higher being. A being that only speak in parentheses and data. This is the path towards the pearly gates and it will turn you into the Alpha and the Omega of programming.

When you have walked the path of the righteous you will earn a seat in the high heavens and you will gaze down from your mountain of awesomeness upon the lesser beings of the world.

# Get it running

1. Install leiningen. Follow the instructions at http://leiningen.org/
2. Install NodeJs. Follow the instructions at https://nodejs.org/en/download/
2. with a command prompt/ terminal traverse to the root folder where the project.clj file is located
3. lein deps
4. lein cljsbuild once
5. node ./snake-bot.js

### Development tips

instead of "lein cljsbuild once" do "lein cljsbuild auto" this will start a file watcher that will recompile the javascript upon file changes.

# Structure

- root
  - src
    - cljs_snake_bot
      - snake_examples (In here there are two examples, one random snake and one snake that tries to not hit the walls nor other snakes)
    - constants.cljs (All the message identifiers used)
    - core.cljs (Contains the websocket handling and the game loop. The game loop is just a busy wait loop that continues until the game ends)
    - event.cljs (The reactions to different messages. This piece will update the current game state and also respond to different events with a new message)
    - messagehandler.cljs (Parses the current message and calls the correct event handler)
    - messages.cljs (Message templates)
    - printer.cljs (Console/Terminal printer)
    - settings.cljs (Current game settings and game state)
  - project.clj (Leiningen project file that contains dependencies and stuff)

# What to change

### Settings.cljs

Update the settings of your client either if you want to change what the printer prints, the map used for the games, if you are the host for the game or not, or what hostname/port/gamemode the server is running.

You can also change what colors the snakes will be assigned to. All that you need to do is to change the snake-colors atom. Available options are; black, red, green, yellow, blue, magenta, cyan, white, gray and if the author of the colors.js package accepts my pull request you will also have; america, rainbow, random and zebra. Just remember that the color names are case sensitive.

### Events.cljs

Here is where you will include your snake. Update the final line of "on-map-updated" and pass it any valid movement directional string and it will send that to the server. A snippet can be found below:

```clojure
(defn on-map-updated [msg]
  (p/print-map-updated-message msg)
  (s/state-set :game-tick (:gameTick msg))
  (msgs/get-move-message (s/state-get :player-id) (s/state-get :game-tick) "DOWN")) // Change "DOWN" into something else
```

  I would place my snake in its own namespace. Require that namespace into this file and call some get-move function that returns your next move. An example can be found below

- super-snake.cljs
```clojure
  (ns cljs-snake-bot.snake-examples.super-snake
    (:require [cljs.core :as core]))

  (defn get-next-movement [msg] "UP")
```

- events.cljs
```clojure
  (ns cljs-snake-bot.events
    (:require [cljs.nodejs :as nodejs]
              [cljs-snake-bot.messages :as msgs]
              [cljs-snake-bot.settings :as s]
              [cljs-snake-bot.printer :as p]
              [cljs-snake-bot.snake-examples.super-snake :as ss])

  (defn on-map-updated [msg]
    (p/print-map-updated-message msg)
    (s/state-set :game-tick (:gameTick msg))
    (msgs/get-move-message (ss/get-next-movement msg)))

```
And now your snake should start moving upwards instead.

Woho!

### Project.clj

Update this one if you need more NodeJs dependencies or if you need to optimize your solution or something similar.
To see how NodeJs dependencies are used. Look at the core.cljs file.

## Utils

There is a small utils library included that provides some basic helper functions. Documentation for the functions are found within the utils.cljs file.

## Printing

The console printer within this snake bot client is an asynchronous one. So to get the messages printed in the right order please use the supplied printing library.

To print a user message just call the method print-user-message with all the text pieces that you want to print. It works the same way as println.

## Tests

There are a couple of tests written for this client. They can be found within the test folder.
To run these tests do the following:

1. Download and install SlimerJS. Follow the instructions at https://slimerjs.org/ and remember to set the script to your path
2. in a terminal traverse to the project root
3. lein deps
4. lein doo slimer test

One thing worth to note is that the unit test will not run with the help of line doo if there are prints within the code. So either, just use lein doo as a compiler and run the output file with node, or just comment out the lines that are printing when you are writing/running your tests.

You have now the ability to be one of the cool kids. Yay you!
